Add the `ecs_simplified` blog post (#1513)
iasql/iasql-engine: site/blog/2022-11-04.mdx

---
slug: ecs-simplified
title: Deploying to ECS, Simplified!
authors: [mtp1376]
---
If you have ever tried to deploy your containerized application to ECS, you know that it's not going to be an easy click-to-deploy journey. In order to get your application up and running on ECS, you have to go through a bunch of resource creation. You'll need to:
- deploy a load balancer as the point-of-contact for your app
- create a target group for the load balancer and register the ECS tasks in it
- add a new listener to your load balancer and connect it to the target group
- create a security group, and you need to allow the port your app is listening on in that security group
- attach the security group above to your load balancer
- create a CloudWatch log group for your ECS task
- create an ECS cluster, and definitely the task definition as well
- Oh, and create an ECR repository to push your images to be run on the container

> I'm not going to continue this long list, since I've already got a headache. Doing those steps manually is going to give you a headache as well, so why bother doing all those steps yourself and risking different errors you might face when deploying your containerized app? You don't really have the time for the random IAM-related errors AWS demanding you to resolve. Besides, you already have your codebase ready and the `Dockerfile` is there, so why not just run a simple command doing something that should be simply done?

Reviewer: Nit

```suggestion
I'm not going to continue this long list, since I've already got a headache. Doing those steps manually is going to give you a headache as well, so why bother doing all those steps yourself and risking different errors you might face when deploying your containerized app? You don't really have the time for the random IAM-related errors AWS is demanding you to resolve. Besides, you already have your codebase ready and the `Dockerfile` is there, so why not just run a simple command doing something that should be simply done?
```

> In this post, we're going to discover an IaSQL module that's built to make deploying to ECS, simplified. Most of the details for deploying a container to ECS are the same (load balancers, security groups, IAM roles, etc), and we have created the `ecs_simplified` module for you so that you can give it your codebase and get your app deployed to ECS **in just 11 minutes**. All of those needed resources are going to be created automatically in your AWS account, and you'll have full access over them either through the AWS dashboard, or through your IaSQL database.

Reviewer: I know it's not our fault, but "in just 11 minutes" feels like forever for something that *should* be able to spin up in seconds, so not sure about the emphasis on that?

The flexibility of IaSQL– which makes it really awesome– is that you can create both the high-level and the low-level modules for it. Both of the above statements are already possible using IaSQL modules. The first one using a module named `aws_ecs_simplified` and the latter using the `aws_security_group` module. Let's take a peek on the actual implementations really quick before we continue our main topic.

```sql title="Deploy the folder 'examples/ecs-fargate/prisma/app' of the 'iasql-engine' repo to ECS on my AWS account"
-- Install the "high-level" aws_ecs_simplified IaSQL module
SELECT iasql_install('aws_ecs_simplified');
-- Create the load balancer, ECS service, task definition, etc. All ready afterwards for us to build and push to deploy the app.
INSERT INTO ecs_simplified (app_name, app_port, image_tag, public_ip) VALUES ('simple-express', 8088, 'latest', true);
SELECT iasql_apply();
-- Use the "high-level" ecr_build function to build the folder "examples/ecs-fargate/prisma/app" from "iasql-engine" Github repo and push it to ECR
SELECT ecr_build(
  'https://github.com/iasql/iasql-engine/',

>   (SELECT id FROM repository WHERE repository_name = 'simple-express-repository')::varchar(255),

Reviewer: Do you need this `varchar` cast? Postgres will auto-cast where reasonable. I think it's worth checking if we can remove that part.

Author: I tried using the query without that cast, but it doesn't work :(.

  './examples/ecs-fargate/prisma/app',

>   'ghp_XXX', -- replace your github personal access token here

Reviewer: Public repos shouldn't need the github access token, right? Can this be optional?

Author: Oh that's a really messy AWS CodeBuild stuff. I tried a bunch of times without any personal access tokens and it cannot even pull the public repos. God knows why it needs a PAT for just cloning a repo. I'll try again to see if it can be done without a PAT (in case it was because of IAM role or something else and I've misjudged).

Author: In the worst case, we can sign up for a Github account and create a PAT (with only access to the public repos) and put it here? Or maybe put it on the engine?

Author: Wait, I have another idea: we can set the source provider in the CodeBuild to "No Source" and do a normal `git clone` at the first of the `buildspec.yaml` file. In case a PAT is provided by the user, we can go with the normal flow.

Author: I tested that idea and it worked. I'll change the `ecr_build` to use that behavior.

>   'main'

Reviewer: It may make sense to put comments after each of these lines explaining what the arguments are. I know this is our `main` branch, but the reader may not know that and if they're still using `master` as the primary branch name, they might copy-paste this string as-is and not understand why it's failing.

);

> ```

Reviewer: Alternatively, add in a paragraph here explaining the steps in the SQL above. Then you can include clickable hyperlinks to other things, like some of our documentation, in the explanation.

```sql title="Create a security group named 'allow-all' attached to the VPC with ID 'vpc-f56cff91'. Then add a rule to it allowing all incoming traffic on port '80' from '0.0.0.0/0'"
-- Install the aws_security_group IaSQL module
SELECT iasql_install('aws_security_group');

> -- "Create a security group named `allow-all` attached to the VPC with ID `vpc-f56cff91`"
> INSERT INTO security_group (description, group_name, vpc_id)
> VALUES ('allows all incoming traffic on port 80', 'allow-all', (SELECT id FROM vpc WHERE vpc_id = 'vpc-08c0a68025c2983a2'));

Reviewer: You have two different `vpc_id`s referenced in this text.

I would also suggest restructuring this to select the `vpc_id` through the [`subnet`s on the `service` record](https://github.com/iasql/iasql-engine/blob/main/src/modules/0.0.22/aws_ecs_fargate/entity/service.ts#L67).

Something like:

```suggestion
-- "Create a security group named `allow-all` attached to the VPC the ECS service is on"
INSERT INTO security_group (description, group_name, vpc_id)
VALUES ('allows all incoming traffic on port 80', 'allow-all', (
  SELECT id
  FROM vpc
  INNER JOIN subnet ON subnet.vpc_id = vpc.id
  INNER JOIN service ON service.subnets[1] = subnet.subnet_id
  WHERE service.name = 'simple-express-service'
 ));
```

It's a bit longer, but much less error prone, and truly runnable with the Button links without requiring any edits on the user's side, if they want.

Author: This example didn't meant to be related to the `ecs_simplified` context. I was trying to tell the users that they can do both the high-level and low-level stuff using IaSQL. But if it's not self-explanatory enough, I should add some more info showing that intention?

Reviewer: Then I am completely confused by the example being in there, to be honest? It feels very off-topic from the "deploy my `Dockerfile`-managed git repo to AWS easily" subject if it is not used in the actual flow in any way, and could similarly confuse people into believing it is necessary.

If you want to go into the high-level/low-level distinctions in this blog post, perhaps it would make more sense explaining how `aws_ecs_simplified` depends on `aws_ecs_fargate`, `aws_ecr`, etc, and listing out all of the SQL statements it's `INSERT` trigger executes for you? That would showcase how *much* the simplified module does for you.

Then you could take it further, if you wanted to, showing how after you created the deployment via the simplified module you can still `UPDATE` some default that you have a special need to be different, getting the power to adjust things to your precise needs that a PaaS would instead force you to work around because it cannot be changed.

INSERT INTO security_group_rule (is_egress, ip_protocol, from_port, to_port, cidr_ipv4, description, security_group_id)
VALUES (false, 'tcp', 80, 80, '0.0.0.0/8', 'allow all to 80', (SELECT id FROM security_group WHERE group_name = 'allow-all'));
```

## ** An Example of `ecs_simplified` Module **
Let's say we are going to deploy [this simple Express.js app](https://github.com/iasql/iasql-engine/tree/main/examples/ecs-fargate/prisma/app) to the ECS. It has a `Dockerfile` ready which `npm install`s the `express` package and then starts the Express server which listens on the port `8088`.

Assuming that you have an IaSQL database, let's go and deploy the above app to our AWS account.
```sql title="Deploy a simple Express.js app from a Github repository to ECS" showLineNumbers
SELECT iasql_install('aws_ecs_simplified');
INSERT INTO ecs_simplified(app_name, app_port, image_tag, public_ip) VALUES(
  'simple-express',
  8088,
  'latest',
  true
);
SELECT iasql_apply();

SELECT ecr_build(
  'https://github.com/iasql/iasql-engine/',
  (SELECT id
    FROM repository
    WHERE repository_name = 'simple-express-repository')::varchar(255),
  './examples/ecs-fargate/prisma/app',

>   'ghp_XXX', -- replace your github personal access token here

Reviewer: If we can eliminate this for public github repos, that would be great. Zero edits of these scripts is the ideal scenario. Let them edit it *after* they see something working.

  - For more info on the `iasql_apply()` command, check [this guide](https://iasql.com/docs/apply-and-sync/#apply-and-preview_apply) on how it works.
- After running the `iasql_apply()` function to completion all the necessary resources are now created on the cloud, so their ARNs are populated. You can verify this by looking at different tables, eg. `iam_role`.
- To get your load balancer address, you can easily run `SELECT load_balancer_dns FROM ecs_simplified WHERE app_name = 'simple-express'` query and get the URL to access your app.
- Now the ECS is waiting for an image to be pushed to your ECR repository to run it. You can get the URI for the ECR repository by running the `SELECT repository_uri FROM ecs_simplified WHERE app_name = 'simple-express'` query.
  - In the next step, we'll automatically build an image for the code in Github repo and then push it to this URI (all through SQL and using another high-level function named `ecr_build`).
```sql
SELECT ecr_build(
  'https://github.com/iasql/iasql-engine/',
  (SELECT id
    FROM repository
    WHERE repository_name = 'simple-express-repository')::varchar(255),
  './examples/ecs-fargate/prisma/app',

>   'ghp_XXX', -- replace your github personal access token here

Reviewer: Re-emphasizing here. It could just be `NULL` and then we don't mess with the github token, but can still have an obvious call-out in the comments about adding a github personal access token if it's a private repo.

  'main'
);
```
- This command tells IaSQL to go clone `iasql-engine` repository, build an image on the subdirectory specified, and then push it to the ECR repository created earlier by `ecs_simplified` module. Running the above command will automatically create a CodeBuild project and the related roles, etc. Then it'll start a build, and after it's successful all the created resources are deleted to ensure there won't be any additional charges to your AWS account.
- To access your app on the cloud, get the load balancer address and use your browser to access the live version of it:
```sql
SELECT load_balancer_dns
FROM ecs_simplified
WHERE app_name = 'simple-express';
```
Mine is `simple-express-load-balancer-94898832.us-east-2.elb.amazonaws.com` so I can access it by opening the following address in my browser:

> -  http://simple-express-load-balancer-94898832.us-east-2.elb.amazonaws.com:8088/health/

Reviewer: We probably shouldn't include this statement except if we're willing to leave that URL up in perpetuity.
